---
title: "New year, who dis?"
layout: post
date: 2019-01-06
tags:
  - General
  - Goals
lead: "Old meme is old, but 2019 is not. That means it is time to think about
  what I want to achieve in the coming year."
---

From sitting down and cutting my dreams into manageable goals, one thing has
become very apparent: Focus is going to be the overarching theme of this year.
Focus on personal health, productivity, knowledge, etc. With me quitting my old
job and going solo, being focused and prioritising tasks is of paramount
importance.

Now for the part where I lay out some actionable goals for the coming year:

## Rehabilitate lower body (200 gym sessions)

This goal is my primary motivator for all the changes being made this year.
Commute to and from work, coupled with 8 hours of a mostly static desk job, has
wreaked havoc on my lower body. Luckily the solution is simple: Don't stay
still for too long, and make sure to train stabilising musculature. Easy,
right?

Actually, being self employed, it looks like this goal might be one of the more
manageable ones. Getting back into my gym-going habits has been a breeze thus
far, probably helped by the fact that lower body pain is already lessened a
lot. 200 total sessions for the year appears more like a minimum.

## Earn a living being a "solotrepeneur"

Currently I'll have to chip at my savings quite heavily in order to live, which
is obviously not a sustainable solution in the long term. Luckily I don't need
a lot month to month, which means it shouldn't be too hard to fill up the
coffers.

The real magic trick will be balancing potential client work with my other
goals. Definitely a challenge I look forward to tackling.

## Write 50 posts this year

I used to love writing, and I definitely was a better writer at one point in
time. Being able to refer to past documented knowledge is a huge productivity
booster, and something I'm hoping I'll be able to bring back. Solution? Write
more.

A writing habit probably needs daily maintenance, but no matter the
implementation my goal is to post some kind of article by Sunday each week this
year.

## Read 25 books

These last two years I have accumulated more books than I have been able to get
through. Sad, but true. Hopefully I'll be able to catch up by dedicating time
to reading each day.

I'd like for this total to reach 50 by the end of the year, but reading won't
immediately pay the bills. Another round of "sad, but true".

## Finish 6 projects

Last, but definitely not least: I want to finish 6 personal projects before
2019 ends. One could probably call this a form of "12 startups in 12 months"
challenge, tailored to fit my other goals for the year.

Main intent is to produce products that I personally need, and feel are missing
from the current marketplace. Hopefully I'll be able to build something that
people other than me also want to use. Side effect is practise with coming up
with solid ideas, and shipping them in a usable form.

Expect bi-monthly releases starting this February.
